1st draft of new article (#61)
PowerShell/Community-Blog: Posts/2021/05/tfl-output_as_string.md

---
post_title: How to send output to a file
username: tfl@psp.co.uk
Categories: PowerShell
tags: PowerShell, output
Summary: Multiple ways of sending output to a file. 
---

**Q:** Is there an easy way to save my script output to a text file rather than displaying it on screen?

**A:** Of course - there are multiple ways to do just that!

## PowerShell and Output

One of PowerShell's great features is the way it automatically formats output.
You type a command - PowerShell gives you the output it thinks you want.
If the default output is not what you need, use the formatting cmdlets like `Format-Table` and `Format-List` to get what you want.
But sometimes, what you want is getting output to a file, not to the console.
You might want to run a command or script that outputs information to a file and sends this file via email or possibly FTP.
Or, you might want to view it in a text editor or print it out later.

Once you have created the code (script, fragment, or a single command) that creates the output you need, you can use several techniques to send that output to a file.
The easiest way to do this is to pipe the output to `Add-Content`, `Set-Content`, or `Out-File`.

> Then, there is the legacy approach, using the **>** or **>>** characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, there is the legacy approach, using the redirection operators, `>` or `>>` .
```

And for some more extreme situations, you can drop down into .NET and output your information using .NET class methods.
Let's examine the alternatives.

## The alternative methods

There are (at least) four ways to get output to a file.
You can use any or all of:

* `*-Content` cmdlets
* `Out-File` cmdlet
* Redirection operators

> * .NET classes

Reviewer: This section is repetitive. I suggest moving line 23-25 to the list below.

Writing this reminds me of my friends in Portugal who tell me there are 1000 ways to cook bacalao (cod).
Then they whisper: plus the way my mother taught me.
If there are more techniques for file output, I expect to see them in the comments to this article. 😃

Let's examine each of these methods in turn.

## Using the `*-Content` cmdlets

There are four `*-Content` cmdlets:

* `Add-Content` - appends content to a file.
* `Clear-Content` - removes all content of a file.
* `Get-Content` - retrieves the content of a file.
* `Set-Content` - writes new content which replaces the content in a file.

The two cmdlets you use to send command or script output to a file are `Set-Content` and `Add-Content`.
Both cmdlets convert the objects you pass in the pipeline to strings, and then output these strings to the specified file.
A very important point here - if you pass either cmdlet a non-string object, these cmdlets use each object's **ToString()** method to convert the object to a string before outputting it to the file.
For example:

```powershell-console
PS> Get-Process -Name pwsh | Set-Content -Path C:\Foo\AAA.txt

> PS> Get-Content -Path C:\Foo\AAA.txt

Author: fixed.

```powershell-console
PS> $Foo = [System.Object]::new()
PS> $Foo.ToString()
System.Object
```

The **System.Diagnostics.Process** class's implementation of the **ToString()** method is only marginally richer.
The **ToString()** method for this class outputs the object's type name and includes the process name as you see above.
But it is far short of the richer output you see when you use `Get-Process` from the console.

The `*-Content` cmdlets are useful when you are building up a report programmatically.
For example, you could create a string, then add to it repeatedly in a script, finally outputting the report string to a file.
You can see the basic approach to building up a report in [this script that creates a Hyper-V VM summary report](https://github.com/doctordns/Wiley20/blob/master/10%20-%20Reporting/10.8%20-%20Creating%20a%20Hyper-V%20Status%20Report.ps1).

You can improve the output from `Set-Content` by using `Out-String`, like this:

```powershell-console
PS> # Get Powershell processes, convert to string, then output to a file
PS> Get-Process -Name pwsh |
      Out-String |

>         Set-Content .\Process.txt

Author: fixedf
